.\" Manpage for decode-der.
.\" Contact jonathan@wilbur.space to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" This man page is released under the following MIT license:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Jonathan M. Wilbur <jonathan@wilbur.space>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH man 1 "01 Jan 2018" "1.0" "decode-der man page"
.SH NAME
.BR decode-der ", Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER) Decoder from the ASN.1 D Library"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B decode-der
.RI [ element
.IR .\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Takes Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER) encoded data from
.I stdin
and decodes it to a
readable format to
.IR stdout .
Takes no options or operands. If you do not pipe something in from
.IR stdin ,
it will appear to "freeze," but it is not really frozen\-\-it is awaiting
keyboard input from you! Although the range of valid ASN.1 data you can
create with your keyboard is very narrow, if you can type it with your
keyboard, you can do so, and terminate the session of user input by pressing
.I Ctrl-D
once or twice. Or, you can just cancel by pressing
.IR Ctrl-C .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Could not decode at least one element.
.SH EXAMPLES
You can decode a PEM-encoded X.509 certificates using the following command:
.EX
.RS
tail -n +2 <path to cert> | head -n -1 | base64 --decode | decode-der
.RE
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.I encode-der(1)
.SH BUGS
There are no known bugs with this program, however, if you find any, please
report them to
.UR https://\:github.com/\:JonathanWilbur/\:asn1-d/\:issues
the GitHub issues page.
.UE
.SH AUTHORS
.MT jonathan@\:wilbur.space
Jonathan M. Wilbur
.ME