.\" Manpage for encode-der.
.\" Contact jonathan@wilbur.space to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" This man page is released under the following MIT license:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Jonathan M. Wilbur <jonathan@wilbur.space>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH man 1 "01 Jan 2018" "1.0" "encode-der man page"
.SH NAME
.BR encode-der ", Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER) Encoder from the ASN.1 D Library"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B encode\-der
.RI [ element
.IR .\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Encodes an element via the Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER), as specified in the
International Telecommunications Union's specification, X.690, and writes the
encoded data to
.IR stdin .
.SH OPERANDS
Each
.B element
is supplied as an argument having the following form:
.PP
.RS
.I [class:construction:number]::=method:value
.RE
.PP
where
.I class
is one of the following:
.TP
.B U
Encodes the element with UNIVERSAL class.
.TP
.B A
Encodes the element with APPLICATION class.
.TP
.B C
Encodes the element with CONTEXT-SPECIFIC class.
.TP
.B P
Encodes the element with PRIVATELY-DEFINED class.
.PP
and
.I construction
is one of the following:
.TP
.B P
Encodes the element in PRIMITIVE form.
.TP
.B C
Encodes the element in CONSTRUCTED form.
.PP
and
.I number
is the tag number to be associated with the element.
.PP
On the right hand side of the element, you have
.I method
which is one of the following:
.TP
.B eoc
Encodes an END OF CONTENT. Takes no
.IR value .
.TP
.B bool
Encodes a BOOLEAN, taking TRUE or FALSE as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B int
Encodes a INTEGER, taking any integer as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B bit
Encodes a BIT STRING, taking a sequence of 1s and 0s as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B oct
Encodes a OCTET STRING, taking hexadecimal as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B null
Encodes a NULL. Takes no
.IR value .
.TP
.B oid
Encodes a OBJECT IDENTIFIER, taking object identifier, such as "1.3.4.6.1" as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B od
Encodes a ObjectDescriptor, taking a string as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B real
Encodes a REAL, taking a floating point number, such as -22.86 as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B enum
Encodes a ENUMERATED, taking any integer as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B utf8
Encodes a UTF8String, taking any string as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B roid
Encodes a RELATIVE OID, taking a part of an object identifier, such as "4.6.1", as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B numeric
Encodes a NumericString, taking a string of only numbers or space as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B printable
Encodes a PrintableString, taking a string as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B teletex
Encodes a TeletexString, taking hexadecimal as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B videotex
Encodes a VideotexString, taking hexadecimal as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B ia5
Encodes a IA5String, taking a string as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B utc
Encodes a UTCTime, taking a DateTime String of the form YYYYMMDDTHHMMSS as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B time
Encodes a GeneralizedTime, taking a DateTime String of the form YYYYMMDDTHHMMSS as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B graphic
Encodes a GraphicString, taking a string as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B visible
Encodes a VisibleString, taking a string as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B general
Encodes a GeneralString, taking a string as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B universal
Encodes a UniversalString, taking a string as the
.IR value .
.TP
.B bmp
Encodes a BMPString, taking a string as the
.IR value .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B -1
Could not understand command line arguments.
.TP
.B 1
Could not encode at least one element.
.SH EXAMPLES
This line
.PP
.EX
.RS
encode-der \\
.RE
.RS
[UP1]::=bool:TRUE \\
.RE
.RS
[UP2]::=int:5 \\
.RE
.RS
[UP3]::=bit:110110 \\
.RE
.RS
[UP4]::=oct:0AFEBCD159 \\
.RE
.RS
[UP22]::=ia5:testeroni > test.der
.RE
.EE
.PP
creates a BOOLEAN, INTEGER, BIT STRING, OCTET STRING, and IA5String in that order,
and writes the binary data to
.IR test.der .
.PP
Decoding using
.I decode-der(1)
like so:
.PP
.EX
.RS
cat test.der | ./build/executables/decode-der
.RE
.EE
.PP
shows that it worked!
.PP
.RS
[ UNIV 1 ] : TRUE
.RE
.RS
[ UNIV 2 ] : 5
.RE
.RS
[ UNIV 3 ] : BIT STRING
.RE
.RS
[ UNIV 4 ] : [10, 254, 188, 209, 89]
.RE
.RS
[ UNIV 22 ] : testeroni
.RE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I decode-der(1)
.SH BUGS
There are no known bugs with this program, however, if you find any, please
report them to
.UR https://\:github.com/\:JonathanWilbur/\:asn1-d/\:issues
the GitHub issues page.
.UE
.SH AUTHORS
.MT jonathan@\:wilbur.space
Jonathan M. Wilbur
.ME